Amazon’s Leadership Principles


Customer Obsession : Leaders start with customer and work backwards. Work hard 
to keep customer trust. 
    STAR
        Situation : When working in internship at Voiceshop, were working with 
        interactive advertisements. Our project involved working with datasets 
        including voice datasets. However, when we displayed the final demo,
        customer told that he needed the advertisements to be in Indian Accent. 
        Thus, our months work could go in vain, we would be paid, but customer 
        would have lost his money, and perhaps, lose trust in us. 

        Task : To forego month's worth of hardwork and to deliver new product on 
        same deadline changing 70% of algorithm. 

        Action : Without wasting time, overworked and deliver the product,
        albeit with few rough corners and earned customer's trust. 

        Result : Customer stayed in contact even after internship, moreover, Our
        company signed contract for future. 

Ownership : Leaders are owners. They own. Look at long term value, rather than 
short term gains. 
    STAR 
        Situation : In hackathon, almost at the last moment, our database was 
        deleted. I wasn't responsible for that and could've just blamed it on 
        teammate. 

        Task : To recover and simulate our 2 months results in just few hours, 
        which I could've easily ignored but didn't. 

        Action : Gathered my team and first of all consoled everyone. Then 
        divided the task and thus, got it done efficiently. 

        Result : We were selected to proceed till the finals, and we were the
        university winners. 

Invent and Simplify : Leaders expect and require innovations and invention. Look
for new ideas everywhere and are not limited by anything even if they are 
misunderstood. 
    STAR
        Situation : During one of my Research Assistantship, I was working on a 
        dataset generation problem where I had to work with Google Translate API. 
        There, because of some constraints, we were only allowed 400 lines of 
        translation. 

        Task : To fasten the process of data generation to complete the project
        faster. 

        Action : What I did was I spent some time tinkering around with the settings
        and found that if we send new requests every 5 seconds, Google treats them 
        as separate ones, thus, we were able to send new requests and get our work
        done. 

        Result : Reduced the dataset generation time by 67% and thus, earned
        reputation of the professor. 

Are Right, A Lot : Having strong judgements and good instincts. Seek diverse 
perspectives and work to disconfirm their beliefs. 
    STAR
        Situation : During one of my research assistantships, we were working on 
        task of email classification. Our PI told us to run an algoritm called 
        Name Entity Recognition on the dataset, believing that it would work. 

        Task : PI told to run an algorithm, that I knew wouldn't work as good as 
        our current algorithm. 

        Action : I contacted my PI in personal and explained in detail why it wouldn't 
        work the way we wanted it to. At first, she wasn't very convinced and thus, 
        wanted to go ahead with the implementation. However, I tried to run that
        algorithm on a smaller dataset, so less time was wasted and turns out I was
        correct. It didn't work as intended. 

        Result : Valuable resources and time of our time were saved because I believed
        in my instincts that the named algorithm won't work. 

Learn and Be Curious : Leaders are never done learning and always keep learning 
about new opportunities. 
    STAR    
        Situation : It was during my final year internship at CJ Enterprise. I had
        to design and implement a recommendation for our app. Until now, I only had
        experience in Python and ML and never deployed model using mobile app. 

        Task : To implement my algorithm in a mobile application. 

        Action : There were other members who were designated to deploy the model. 
        I wouldn't have to pay attention, however, I thought that I can learn how 
        to deploy models using Flutter. So, after finishin up my work, instead
        of relaxing, I went down to SDEs, and understood what needed to be done
        for efficient deployment of algorithm on mobile application. 

        Result : I learnt a skill that I believe will be very useful to me in the
        future and now I have working knowledge of how to deploy a model on 
        Flutter based mobile application. 

Hire and Develop the Best : Leaders raise the performance bar with every hire 
and promotion. They recognize exceptional talent, and willingly move them 
throughout the organization. Leaders develop leaders and take seriously their 
role in coaching others. We work on behalf of our people to invent mechanisms 
for development like Career Choice.
    STAR 
        Situation : Towards the end of my internship, I had to transfer over to 
        new intern replacing me. Company had already selected some of the candidates
        and I had to shortlist amongst them. 

        Task : To find replacement for me and bring him upto speed. 

        Action : I took the responsibility to train the intern. Moreover, I didn't 
        compromise on the candidate that he was not only as good as me, but better than 
        me. I took the responsibility to train him as good as I could and thus 
        was able to bring the best out of him. 

        Result : The transition was butter smooth and company didn't even lose 
        a single day in the transition period. 

Insist on Highest Standards : Leaders have relentlessly high standards — many 
people may think these standards are unreasonably high. Leaders are continually 
raising the bar and drive their teams to deliver high quality products, services, 
and processes. Leaders ensure that defects do not get sent down the line and that 
problems are fixed so they stay fixed.
    STAR        
        Situation : During my second internship at CJ Enterprise, we working against
        the clock to deliver our app on time to the client. However, because of 
        optimization issues, algorithm was having very high runtime near the deadline. 
        Our leader said that we can deliver with same algoritm to stay in the deadline

        Task : To deliver the app on time with an optimized algorithm. 

        Action : I could have easily ignored it and could've let it go. However, 
        I didn't feel it right to deliver subpar quality product to the customer. 
        So, I stayed alone in the office overnight to discover the bottleneck and 
        act upon it to improve the efficiency of the algorithm. Moreover, I also 
        implemented the algorithm in Dart, in which I wasn't very sufficient. 

        Result : We were able to deliver the app that was of the highest standard
        that we promised to our customer. 

Think Big : Thinking small is a self-fulfilling prophecy. Leaders create and 
communicate a bold direction that inspires results. They think differently and 
look around corners for ways to serve customers.
    STAR
        Situation : During my internship at Voiceshop, we were supposed to train
        only a one time model with static dataset. 

        Task : Deliver the product exactly according to the specifications given 
        by customer knowing that it won't be sustained for longer periods. Or 
        go overboard with the product without extra pay just to deliver a better
        product. 

        Action : I chose to go with the latter option of enabling dynamic dataset
        to train online as new examples come in using the data provided by the 
        client. Definitely, it was more work and we weren't getting paid for it. 
        However, I thought big and established a relation with the client. Fast 
        forward today, that company is our biggest client and I believe it was 
        because of the product that they got. 

        Result : Earned our company a lifelong client and earned their trust. 

Bias for Action : Speed matters in business. Many decisions and actions are 
reversible and do not need extensive study. We value calculated risk taking. 
    STAR
        Situation : During my research assistantships under Prof Namrata, advisor 
        wanted to make a crucial change just 3 days before presentation. Prof relied
        on my discretion on whether it was possible or not. 
        
        Task : To somehow generate results pertaining the condition that was not
        known up until now and deliver presentable results. 

        Action : I understood that implementing the algorithm on whole dataset 
        would not be possible and won't be necessary either for the presentation. 
        But implementing that would highly benefit my guide. Thus, I risked and 
        simulated the algorithm and generated results for cherry picked examples
        from the dataset. The plan was, if it was approved, we would apply it 
        on whole dataset and results should be same

        Result : It worked. The committee approved, and once it was approved, we
        applied the algorithm on whole dataset and the results were the same as 
        simulated results. Thus, we were able to move forward without wasting any 
        time. 

Frugality : Accomplish more with less. Constraints breed resourcefulness, 
self-sufficiency, and invention. There are no extra points for growing headcount, 
budget size, or fixed expense.
    STAR
        Situation : During one of the hackathons, at first we were allowed a team
        of 6. However, because of covid and restictions, at last moment, teams 
        were reduced to size of 4. 

        Task : During problem submission, we selected problem according to the team
        of 6 and divided headcount accordingly. However, after reduction in team 
        size, we were given option to change our problem statement. 

        Action : We didn't change the problem statement and decided to go through 
        with it. We initially allocated 2 people for ML Modeling, 2 people for 
        Website building and 2 for live video processing. However, now, I being the 
        leader, I took the biggest portion. I alone did the ML Modeling and also 
        took part in video processing. Thus, we worked 25 hours a day while I ensured 
        no one lost motivation and delivered the same project in specified timeframe
        without any corner cutting in less amount of human resources

        Result : I learnt that 6 people were not necessary for the job and sometimes, 
        Frugality can be rewarding and can teach us better resource management. 

Earn Trust : Leaders listen attentively, speak candidly, and treat others 
respectfully. They are vocally self-critical, even when doing so is awkward or 
embarrassing. Leaders do not believe their or their team’s body odor smells of 
perfume. They benchmark themselves and their teams against the best.
    STAR
        Situation : During my last internship at CJ Enterprise, I were to develop
        a recommendation based algorithm. I was given a month to learn and grasp 
        the model and the dataset on which I were to work. 

        Task : I tried my best to learn the ins and outs of the problem statement 
        but I couldn't grasp the whole idea as I didn't work on recommendation 
        system before that. So, I wasn't able to comprehend the work and was very 
        embarrassed to admit that in front of my manager. 

        Action : I opened upto him and told him that I wasn't understanding and 
        I need some more help to grasp the concept. The manager appreciated me 
        that I didn't beat around the bush and told the truth directly. This way, 
        I earned his trust that no matter what, I will always be telling the truth. 
        Moreover, he also gave me some additional time and a mentor was assigned
        to whom I can direct my queries to. 

        Result : I earned that manager's respect and thus, was able make the best 
        out of my internship. Moreover, because of my mentor and because I didn't 
        lie about my expertise, I was able to learn about recommendation system 
        and was able to efficiently use it during my internship. 

Dive Deep : Leaders operate at all levels, stay connected to the details, audit 
frequently, and are skeptical when metrics and anecdote differ. No task is beneath them.
    STAR
        Situation : During my internship at Voiceshop, I was working on developing
        language models for interactive advertisements. At that time, our client
        wanted to incorporate Indian accent into the model. However, we didn't 
        have the dataset large enough to train new model for Indian target. 

        Task : To learn more about the algorithm and dive deep into the technical
        details to tweak the model according to our needs. 

        Action : Without any waste of times, I dived right into the research papers
        of the model that we implemented and looked at the details that can alter
        the performance of the model. Moreover, I started writing the model from 
        scratch alongside with playing with hyperparameters to learn how the 
        parameters affected the performance. 

        Result : I was able to pinpoint the parameters that improved the performance
        of the model by almost 30%. For this, I was appreciated by whole team 
        and also, the client. 

Have Backbone; Disagree and Commit : Leaders are obligated to respectfully challenge
decisions when they disagree, even when doing so is uncomfortable or exhausting.
Leaders have conviction and are tenacious. They do not compromise for the sake 
of social cohesion. Once a decision is determined, they commit wholly. 
    STAR
        Situation : During one of my research assistantships, we were working on 
        task of email classification. My colleague told us to run an algorithm called 
        Name Entity Recognition on the dataset, believing that it would work. 

        Task : colleague told to run an algorithm, that I knew wouldn't work as good as 
        our current algorithm. 

        Action : I contacted my colleague in personal and explained in detail why it wouldn't 
        work the way we wanted it to. At first, she wasn't very convinced and thus, 
        wanted to go ahead with the implementation. However, I tried to run that
        algorithm on a smaller dataset, so less time was wasted and turns out I was
        correct. Thus, when I disagreed with her, instead of belittling her, I made 
        it a point to show why it wouldn't work and made sure that she understood
        and while doing all this, I made sure that I wasn't being obnoxious or 
        condescending. 

        Result : Valuable resources and time of our time were saved because I disagreed 
        and communicated it well without belittling my colleague thus solving the 
        issue peacefully and without affecting the timeline. 

Deliver Results : Leaders focus on the key inputs for their business and deliver them 
with the right quality and in a timely fashion. Despite setbacks, they rise to 
the occasion and never settle. 
    STAR        
        Situation : During my second internship at CJ Enterprise, we working against
        the clock to deliver our app on time to the client. However, because of 
        optimization issues, algorithm was having very high runtime near the deadline. 
        Our leader said that we can deliver with same algoritm to stay in the deadline

        Task : To deliver the app on time with an optimized algorithm. 

        Action : I could have easily ignored it and could've let it go. However, 
        I didn't feel it right to deliver subpar quality product to the customer. 
        So, I stayed alone in the office overnight to discover the bottleneck and 
        act upon it to improve the efficiency of the algorithm. Moreover, I also 
        implemented the algorithm in Dart, in which I wasn't very sufficient. 

        Result : We were able to deliver the app that was of the highest standard
        that we promised to our customer.